# advanced_process_optimisation

I want to share with you a project I did this winter. In my final year of my Engineering degree I am focussing on optimisation theory.
It sounds a little bit complicated but if you have ever wondered how to allocate your time among your tasks in a way that would give you the best results for a project then you were already thinking about optimisation. Now as all things optimisation comes in many different flavours; one of these is linear programming or constrained optimisation. I want to walk you through the theory but in the context of a project I did a few weeks ago.
The world is made of atoms and atoms make up molecules and in turn they make up the world. Palindromic as it may be, it allows us to assign a discrete building block to the universe. With that, there are many ways of arranging atoms to make up molecules of different shapes and sizes. Hypothetically, if you wanted to build a molecule that can make you taste colours then all you need to know is the properties of the building blocks you are using to construct that molecule. Let's be more concise. 

Each molecule has unique features such as a unique shape, size, weight and thermodynamic properties - these may include the temperature at which the molecule melts, T_m. If you know how much each of the atoms that make up the molecule contribute to its overall feature set then you can build up a molecule with your own desired properties. For example, you want the molecule to be blue. So you need to make sure that there are at least some copper, oxygen, and hydrogen atoms in the molecule. The name for this approach is *Group Contribution Methods* and it has been refined by Sahindis et al. over the last 10 years. 

There are other methods to generating new molecules with desired characteristics, chiefly among these being DFT and QSAR. However, these methods also deal with bond angles and quantum mechanical interactions, something I will not be going into in this post and for this project. 

The motivation behind this project was the Kigali Amendment to the Montreal Protocol of 2016. This international conference was held to discuss the future of Hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs). HFCs have huge greenhouse potential which means relatively to the main culprit CO2 they are almost 15,000 times worse at warming the surface of the earth. These molecules are used in refrigeration and air conditioning systems among other things, which makes them one of the most widely used chemicals in circulation. 

The aim of this project was to find a replacement for HFCs using *Group Contribution Methods* since the goal is to reduce HFC consumption by 80% by the year 2047. To do this I made use of *mixed integer non linear* optimisation. Where $C_p$ is the heat capacity of the molecule R-134a (a widely used HFC), and $H_v$ is the heat of vaporisation. By minimising this function we are achieving two things: firstly, we are getting a molecule with a high enough heat capacity to carry heat in refrigeration systems and secondly, we are making sure that the compressor displacement is minimised by making sure that the gas has a large heat of vaporisation. 

The objective function on its own is not enough. We need constraints. These constraints have to ensure the atoms used to make the new molecules behave according to chemical bonding theory. Using this we applied integer cuts. This a method to narrow down the feasible region within which we are looking for solutions in an MINLP. I obtained 10 alternative solutions to the refrigerant R-134a all of which showed similar thermodynamic properties to the target refrigerant. The next steps are to test how closely the predicted parameters match up with real refrigerants. To do this I used NIST data for common refrigerants and their heat capacities and fitted the predicted results to the NIST data. Large discrepancies were found for heats of fusion because these were estimated using manual group contributions from Benson et al. (1968). Further refinement is needed to get more accurate estimates of thermodynamic parameters. If you would like to read the paper then please visit the repository. 
